---

# title: 3.4. Miscellaneous
tags: alg
category: alg
picture_frame: shadow
use_math: true
---

# 3.4. Miscellaneous

# Finding the Closest Pair of 2D Points

## 1. 내용

**[J. Kleinberg and E. Tardos, Algorithm Design, Addison Wesley, 2005. 5.4]** 

- Problem
  - Given $n$ points in the plane, find the pair that is closest together.
- Notation
- Naïve algorithm
  - Compute the distance between each pair of points
  - take the minimum → $O(n^2)$ time

## 2. Applying the Divide-and-Conquer Strategy 

- [Shamos and Hoey]
- Simple assumption for an easy explanation
  - No two points in P have the same $x$-coordinate or the same $y$- coordinate.

- General idea
  
  - [Preprocessing] 
    - Build a list $P_x$ in which all the points in $P$ have been sorted by increasing $x$- coordinate→  $O(n \log n)$
    - Build another list $P_y$ in which all the points in $P$  have been sorted by increasing $y$-coordinate→ $O(n \log n)$ 

  - [Recursion for $P$  with $|P| = n$]
    - [Divide] Partition $P$ into two subsets $Q$ and $R$ → $O(n)$
    - [Conquer] Find the closest pairs in $Q$ and $R$, respectively→ $2T(n/2)$ 
    - [Combine] Use this information to get the closest pair in P→ $O(n)$
    - Time-complexity $O(n \log n) + T(n)$ where $T(n) = cn +2T(n/2) → O(n \log n)$



- The stage [Divide]: Partition $P$ into two subsets $Q$ and $R$. 

  - Create $Q$ and $R$, where 
    - $Q$: the set of points in the first $\lceil(n/2)\rceil$ positions of the list $P_x$ (the “left half”),  
    - $R$: the set of points in the final $\lfloor(n/2) \rfloor$ positions of the list $P_x$ (the “right half”). 


  - Furthermore, create $Q_x, Q_y, R_x$, and $R_y$, where
    - $Q_x$ consisting of the points in $Q$ sorted by increasing $x$-coordinate, 
    - $Q_y$ consisting of the points in $Q$ sorted by increasing $y$-coordinate,
    - $R_x$ consisting of the points in $R$ sorted by increasing $x$-coordinate, 
    - Ry consisting of the points in $R$ sorted by increasing $y$-coordinate. 
  - ✓ Can be done in $O(n)$ 



- The stage [Conquer]: Find the closest pairs in $Q$ and $R$, respectively.
  - Recursively determine a closest pair $(q_0, q_1)$ of points in $Q$.

  - Recursively determine a closest pair $(r_0, r_1)$ of points in $R$. 
    - Can be done in $2T(\frac n 2)$.



- The stage [Combine]: Use the obtained info. to get the closest pair in $P$. 

  - Question : are there points $q \in Q, r \in R$ for which $d(q,r)<\delta$?
    - How can we answer this question in linear time? 


  - [Fact 1] (Why?)  
    - if there $\exists q \in Q , r \in R$ for which $d(q,r)<\delta$ 
    - then each of $q,r$ lies within a distance $\delta$ of$ L$


  - [Fact 2] 

    - $\exists q \in Q, r\in R$ for which $d(q,r)<\delta$ $\iff$ $\exists s, s^{'} \in S$ for which $d(s,s^{'})<\delta$
    - [photo]
    - $x^*$: the x-coordinate of the rightmost point in $Q$
    - $\delta=min(d(q_0^*,q_1^*),d(r_0^*,r_1^*))$
    - [photo]



  - [Fact 3] 
    - if $s, s^{' } \in S$ have the property that $d(s, s^{'})<\delta$, then $s, s^{'}$ re within 15 positions of each other in the sorted list $S_y$ 
      - $S_y$ : the list consisting of the points in $S$ sorted by increasing $y$-coordinate. 
      - Each box contains at most one point of $S$. (Why?) 
      - If two points in $S$ are at least 16 positions apart in $S_y$ , ...
      - 



  - [merge] : $O(n)$

    1. For each $s \in S_y$ , compute its distance to each of the next 15 pts in $S_y$
    2. Let $s, s^{'}$ be the pair achieving the minimum of these distances
    3. Compare $d(s, s^{'})$ with $\delta$

    - [code]
