---
layout: article
title: DnC & Sorting
tags: alg
category: alg
picture_frame: shadow
use_math: true
---
Miscellaneous

### Finding the Closest Pair of 2D Points

##### 1. 내용

**[J. Kleinberg and E. Tardos,** **Algorithm Design****, Addison Wesley, 2005. 5.4]** 

• Problem
 – Given *n* points in the plane, find the pair that is closest together.

• Notation

• Naïve algorithm
 – Compute the distance between each pair of points

and take the minimum → *O*(*n*2) - time

##### 2. Applying the Divide-and-Conquer Strategy 

- [Shamos and Hoey]

- Simple assumption for an easy explanation

  - No two points in P have the same *x*-coordinate or the same *y*- coordinate.

- General idea

  [Preprocessing]

  - Build a list $P_x$ in which all the points in $P$ have been sorted by increasing *x*- coordinate→$O(n log n)$

  - Build another list $P_y$ in which all the points in $P$  have been sorted by increasing *y*-coordinate→$ O(n log *n*)$ 

  [Recursion for $ P$  with $ |P| = n$ ]

  - [Divide] Partition $P$ into two subsets $Q$ and $R$ → $O(n)$
  - [Conquer] Find the closest pairs in $Q $and $R$, respectively→$2T(n/2)$ 
  - [Combine] Use this information to get the closest pair in P→O(n) 
  - Time-complexity $O(n log n) + T(n)$ where $T(n) = cn +2T(n/2) → O(n log n)$

  

- The stage [Divide]: Partition P into two subsets Q and R. 

  - Create Q and R, where • 
    - Q: the set of points in the first ceil(n/2) positions of the list Px (the “left half”), and 
    - R: the set of points in the final floor(n/2) positions of the list Px (the “right half”). 
  - Furthermore, create Qx, Qy, Rx, and Ry, where
    - Qx consisting of the points in Q sorted by increasing x-coordinate, • 
    - Qy consisting of the points in Q sorted by increasing y-coordinate, •
    - Rx consisting of the points in R sorted by increasing x-coordinate, and • 
    - Ry consisting of the points in R sorted by increasing y-coordinate. ✓ Can be done in O(n). 

- The stage [Conquer]: Find the closest pairs in Q and R, respectively.

  - Recursively determine a closest pair (q0*, q1*) of points in Q.

- Recursively determine a closest pair (r0*, r1*) of points in R. 

  - Can be done in 2T(n/2).

- The stage [Combine]: Use the obtained info. to get the closest pair in P. 

  - Question : are there points $q \in Q, r \in R$ for which $d(q,r)<\delta$?

    - How can we answer this question in linear time? 

  - [Fact 1] (Why?)  

    - if there $\exists q \in Q , r \in R$ for which $d(q,r)<\delta$ 
    - then each of $q,r$ lies within a distance $\delta$ of$ L$

  - [Fact 2] 

    - $\exists q \in Q, r\in R$ for which $d(q,r)<\delta$ $\iff$ $\exists s, s^{'} \in S$ for which $d(s,s^{'})<\delta$
    - [photo]

  - $x^*$: the x-coordinate of the rightmost point in $Q$

  - $\delta=min(d(q_0^*,q_1^*),d(r_0^*,r_1^*))$

    - [photo]

  - [Fact 3] 

    - if $s, s^{' } \in S$ have the property that $d(s, s^{'})<\delta$, then $s, s^{'}$ re within 15 positions of each other in the sorted list $S_y$ 
      - $S_y$ : the list consisting of the points in $S$ sorted by increasing $y$-coordinate. 
      - Each box contains at most one point of $S$. (Why?) 
      - If two points in $S$ are at least 16 positions apart in $S_y$ , ...
      - 

  - [merge] : $O(n)$

    1. For each $s \in S_y $ , compute its distance to each of the next 15 pts in $S_y$
    2. Let $s, s^{'}$ be the pair achieving the minimum of these distances
    3. Compare $d(s, s^{'})$ with $\delta$

    - [code]
